QUIZ 2

Name: Francisco Delger
Grade: 6/10

Date out: Mon, 10 oct 2016 
Date due: Fri, 14 oct 2016

-------
rubric:
1) 0/1 1973
2) 3/3 gives color; mentions octal; 18 bits (1 each)
3) 2/2 names segments; gives location, protection or purpose (1 each)
4) 0/1 1 (init)
5) 1/3 wait on death of child; parent child by fork/exec (2)
       parent does not wait (1)
-------       
       
* Copy this file to your own quiz folder. 
* Do not modify anything in the quiz folder, else subversion will stop your commits! 
* Put your name where it says "Name".

Read "The UNIX Time-Sharing System"  by Dennis Ritchie and Ken Thompson.
	Bell System Technical Journal 57:6 July-August 1978.
	https://archive.org/details/bstj57-6-1905

	You can skip sections 3 and 4.


1) When was Unix rewritten in C

* 1972 rewritten

2) Find images on the internet of the PDP11/20 computer.
   a- What colors were the switches on the front panel of the PDP11/20?
   b- Why are the colors on the switches arranged in groups of 3?
   c- What is the size of the address space of the PDP11/20?

a) some sort of magenta, fuscia, and light creamy orange combiantion
b) it had it alternating every 3 so you could see the binary as entering in octal
* c)16 bit word adressable.


3) Unix virtual memory has three logical segments, what are they? 
   State the relative range of addresses for each sgment, the purpose, and 
   any read/write and sharing protec
   tions.

There's the text, data, and stack segments.
Text begins in location 0 and goes up to the first hardware protection byte boundary above the program text, this segment contains executable instructions. From there on the data segment begins which is non-shared and writeable. Data segment contains global variable, static local variables, etc.

The size of the data can be extended by a syscall.

Starting at the highest address in the virtual address space starts the stack
which grows downward as the stack pointer fluctuates. The stack stores the information about the active subroutines of a computer program.

Virtual memory is used as a form of memory protection (thanks to address translation) by preventing programs from interfering with other programs. Likewise, in instances where sharing memory is desired instead, virtual memory can also fulfill this. For processes to share the same virtual memory, the same physical pages are referenced by these processes. This is possible because all memory accesses are decoded using page tables.

4) What is the PID of the unique unix process with no parent process.

*  init, occurs on boot when the kernel starts.
   
5) a- What synchronization mechanism is used by the shell when executing commands,
   to coordinate access to the terminal. 
   b- How is that does the "&" symbol ending a command line modify the use of that
   mechanism.

a) processid = wait(status)
cause its caller to suspend execution until one of its children has completed execution, this is the synchronization mechanism. then wait return the processid of the terminated process.
* does not explain how process is child

* b)instructs the computer to run the command line in the background
* does not provide mechanism